# trufla
Trufla Test Wordpress Theme

The theme is live at : https://ampwebdesign.ca/test/

A login for the site is : trufla / g9u&#Aq!AswRzyB0hUX%wI*)

The main content can be managed in the WP page editor. I included the classic editor as I find it easier to code html into the text editor this way. The top menu on the right is built with the WP menu system. As is also the menu on the mid-level of the sidebar. The top widget in the sidebar is a custom widget taken from the Recent Posts widget. I did this to set up the items as posts so that they could be presented as a widget. I could have used a custom text widget but I thought this would be best if the client wanted to update the list by adding new posts. The post excerpt is used to create the link in the second line. The mid-level sidebar widget height and top level is dealt with by using jQuery to set a height based on the mid-level content on the main content. On a <1120px screen, the jQuery is not used as the site goes to a single column like the example. Above about 1800px wide, the top sidebar widget becomes taller than the main top content so the two widgets would overlap and the layout breaks. I took account for this in the javascript by limiting the top of the middle widget to the height of the top widget. It doesn't stay at the same level as the mid-level content but it doesn't overlap either, which for me is a better trade off. I could have increased the font on the content to patch this issue but the larger text just looked wrong.
The CSS started with the CSS example and then updated to work with WP basic issues with headers, footers and sidebars. The CSS was integrated with a started reset CSS as well. The media queries were upside down to how I like to use them so this was rearranged (ie: max-width 640px was higher up than max-width 1120px). IDs in the CSS were changed to classes. Some HTML classes were changed and their representative CSS classes were changed. I removed a lot of the extra CSS not needed. I may have missed some but could come back to it.
The theme was created with a starter theme that I have used before to get the all the files. It can be got here: http://html5blank.com/. It is very minimal but at least it has all the standard files. All these files were edited, removed, or customized to fit the theme. I use Notepad++ for text editing and Filezilla FTP.
For optimization, I am probably cheating here but I am have my hosting going through CloudFlare so the WP files are minimized and cached.
The Footer gave me an issue where I had used the bottom two grey boxes as hard written in the footer.php file. This made it easier to code the desktop wide version and makes the bottom boxes stretch beyond the sidebar rather than putting it in the main content which would have only had a 66% width. On mobile, the sidebar moves above these boxes instead of underneath. However, jQuery could flip these, I didn't do it. I would argue this may be a better layout. 
I did not use SCSS. I could have started with this starter theme: https://themble.com/bones/ but realized this about 75% of the way through. Using a third party plugin is another option to incorporate it as WP is not SCSS friendly out of the box. 
I did not use a task runner as I didn't use SCSS and it they are no faster than just using the GoDaddy WP installer.
HTML file contents in the main article was added to the site through the WP editor by copy and paste from the index.html. Section tags and divs were adjusted to create the one column and to remove anything not needed in the main article (ie: the footer, sidebars).
Additional pages were not added outside of the home page. Yoast SEO would have been used to make custom titles and descriptions if I did.
The site was created and edited in Chrome but tested in Firefox to adjust CSS and HTML. This way I could have a clean site to look at that wasn't logged into. CloudFlare was set to development mode while editing. When site was close to being finished in Firefox, it was tested in IE Edge, Chrome, Firefox, Firefox Dev, and IE11 browsers. Tested with IE Edge emulation for IE10 and IE9. In IE11, 10, 9 the javascript did not trigger to resize the middle sidebar widget. I may have to use straight javascript or change to an older jQuery version to get this to work. I also tested it on my Android smartphone, mid-sized Android tablet and Apple Ipod Touch.   
Thank you for the task. 
John Laprairie 
john@ampwebdesign.ca
